Add How To... Integrate with Auth0 (#1592)
vmware-tanzu/pinniped: site/content/docs/howto/configure-supervisor-with-auth0.md

## Create an Auth0 Application

Follow the instructions to [create an application](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/auth0-overview/create-applications).

For example, to create an app:

1. In the [Auth0 Admin Console](https://manage.auth0.com/), navigate to _Applications_ > _Applications_.
2. Create a new application:
   1. Click `+ Create Application`.
   2. Provide a name. For `Choose an application type`, select `Regular Web Applications`.
   3. Under `Settings`:
      1. Note the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, which will be provided later to Pinniped.
      2. Update `Allowed Callback URLs` with Pinniped's issuer URL, appending `/callback` to the end. (Example: `https://pinniped.issuer.example.com/callback).
      3. Under `Advanced Settings`, choose `Grant Types` and make sure that `Authorization Code`, `Refresh Token`, and `Password` are selected.
      4. Also under `Advanced Settings`, find the Auth0 Issuer URL by loading the URL at `Endpoints` > `OAuth` > `OpenID Configuration` and finding the `"issuer"` field.

## Configure Auth0 to include user groups in its ID tokens

> There are a handful of ways to include user groups into the Auth0 ID token so that Kubernetes RBAC can be used to assign permissions on the cluster.
> 
> **NOTE**: Pinniped does not have a specific recommendation for how user groups are defined in Auth0.
> The examples below are provided as examples to better understand how Auth0 and Pinniped integrate, not how to configure Auth0.
> 
> One way to add user groups into the ID token is to add a [custom claim](https://auth0.com/blog/adding-custom-claims-to-id-token-with-auth0-actions/).
> Auth0 recommends using a [namespaced format](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/json-web-tokens/create-custom-claims) for your claim names.
> Pinniped requires that the group claim is an array of strings.
> 
> In this example, replace `"https://example.com/pinniped/groups"` with the namespaced claim name of your choice.
> The array of groups should be dynamically provisioned from the Auth0 user store, never hardcoded as shown in this example.

Reviewer: How about something like this?

```suggestion
Auth0 does not have a simple concept of group membership for users. It may possible to model group membership in Auth0, but the specifics depend on which enterprise connector or database is used to create your users. Please refer to the Auth0 documentation for more information.

Pinniped does not have a specific recommendation for how user groups are defined in Auth0. The examples below are provided as examples to better understand how Auth0 and Pinniped integrate, not how to configure Auth0.

Assuming that you have somehow configured Auth0 to include group membership information about your users, you can expose this to Pinniped by configuring Auth0 to include a [custom claim](https://auth0.com/blog/adding-custom-claims-to-id-token-with-auth0-actions/) in the Auth0 ID token.

Auth0 recommends using a [namespaced format](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/json-web-tokens/create-custom-claims) for your custom claim names. In the following example, replace `"https://example.com/pinniped/groups"` with the namespaced claim name of your choice. Pinniped requires that the value of the group claim is an array of strings.

The following example is intended to show how to add a custom claim, but does not show a realistic example of where the group names should come from. To keep this example simple, the group names shown here are hardcoded. Do not hardcode group names for a production system. Instead, the array of groups should be dynamically provisioned from the appropriate place in the Auth0 user store.
```

Author: done with next push

This guide shows you how to configure the Supervisor so that users can authenticate to their Kubernetes
cluster using their Auth0 credentials.

## Prerequisites

This how-to guide assumes that you have already [installed the Pinniped Supervisor]({{< ref "install-supervisor" >}}) with working ingress,
and that you have [configured a FederationDomain to issue tokens for your downstream clusters]({{< ref "configure-supervisor" >}}).

## Create an Auth0 Application

Follow the instructions to [create an application](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/auth0-overview/create-applications).

For example, to create an app:

1. In the [Auth0 Admin Console](https://manage.auth0.com/), navigate to _Applications_ > _Applications_.
2. Create a new application:
   1. Click `+ Create Application`.
   2. Provide a name. For `Choose an application type`, select `Regular Web Applications`.
   3. Under `Settings`:
      1. Note the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, which will be provided later to Pinniped.
      2. Update `Allowed Callback URLs` with Pinniped's issuer URL, appending `/callback` to the end. (Example: `https://pinniped.issuer.example.com/callback).

>       3. Under `Advanced Settings`, choose `Grant Types` and make sure that `Authorization Code`, `Refresh Token`, and `Password` are selected.

Reviewer 2: nit: Could `Advanced Settings` be a 4th bullet in the parent bullet list to reduce the nesting?  I didn't login to Auth0, so if it makes most sense as this nested list then I'm good with that.

Author: makes sense, see next push

      4. Also under `Advanced Settings`, find the Auth0 Issuer URL by loading the URL at `Endpoints` > `OAuth` > `OpenID Configuration` and finding the `"issuer"` field.

> ## Pass user groups into the token for K8s RBAC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Auth0 to include user groups in its ID tokens
```

Author: done, see next push

> There are a handful of ways to include user groups into the Auth0 ID token so that Kubernetes RBAC can be used to assign permissions on the cluster.

Author: Unfortunately there seems to be little opinionation from Auth0 about how groups work. I think it's left entirely as a user exercise if they want to map some user properties into something in a token like a `group` or `roles`. The little docs I can find reference either a closed beta for Authorization Groups (https://community.auth0.com/t/how-do-you-manage-user-groups/35897), Authorization Extensions (https://auth0.com/docs/customize/extensions/authorization-extension) which are being deprecated (https://auth0.com/docs/manage-users/access-control/authorization-core-vs-authorization-extension) in favor of Actions, and Authorization Core (https://auth0.com/docs/manage-users/access-control/configure-core-rbac) which appears to be the preferred mechanism but leans towards redefining all of your "application" (Kubernetes) roles in the Auth0 API.

Given that, I think it's best that Pinniped just recommends that the groups or roles go into the token. I suspect most people using this doc already have an existing Auth0 set up with some corporate opinions, we just need to let them know how to integrate. Note it's also possible that groups/roles could be in the `/userinfo` response but that seemed a level more detailed than I wanted to get in to for this doc.

> There are a handful of ways to include user groups into the Auth0 ID token so that Kubernetes RBAC can be used to assign permissions on the cluster.

Reviewer: See other comment for suggestion.

**NOTE**: Pinniped does not have a specific recommendation for how user groups are defined in Auth0.
The examples below are provided as examples to better understand how Auth0 and Pinniped integrate, not how to configure Auth0.

One way to add user groups into the ID token is to add a [custom claim](https://auth0.com/blog/adding-custom-claims-to-id-token-with-auth0-actions/).
Auth0 recommends using a [namespaced format](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/json-web-tokens/create-custom-claims) for your claim names.
Pinniped requires that the group claim is an array of strings.

In this example, replace `"https://example.com/pinniped/groups"` with the namespaced claim name of your choice.
The array of groups should be dynamically provisioned from the Auth0 user store.

```typescript
exports.onExecutePostLogin = async (event, api) => {
  if (event.authorization) {

>     api.idToken.setCustomClaim("https://example.com/pinniped/groups", ["auth0-read-only", "other-grouo", "something-else"]);

Reviewer: Could this section explicitly explain that this is not a real working configuration, and explain why we are showing an example of using hardcoded group names here?

Author: It does say this, is that sufficient?

>In this example, replace `"https://example.com/pinniped/groups"` with the namespaced claim name of your choice.
The array of groups should be dynamically provisioned from the Auth0 user store, never hardcoded as shown in this example.

Reviewer: See other comment above for suggestion.

  }
};
```

After login, you can grant one of those groups access to your cluster, for example with a `ClusterRoleBinding`:

```shell
kubectl create clusterrolebinding read-only \
    --clusterrole=view \
    --group=auth0-read-only

> ```

Reviewer: I think we could remove this paragraph, since it is not about how to configure Auth0. This is documented in https://pinniped.dev/docs/howto/login/

Author: How about this?

Author: >To configure your Kubernetes authorization, please see [how-to login]({{< ref "login" >}}).

## Configure the Supervisor

Create an [OIDCIdentityProvider](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/pinniped/blob/main/generated/{{< latestcodegenversion >}}/README.adoc#oidcidentityprovider) in the same namespace as the Supervisor.

For example, this OIDCIdentityProvider uses Auth0's `email` claim as the Kubernetes username:

```yaml
apiVersion: idp.supervisor.pinniped.dev/v1alpha1
kind: OIDCIdentityProvider
metadata:
  namespace: pinniped-supervisor
  name: auth0
spec:

  # Change this to be the actual issuer provided by your Auth0 account.
  issuer: https://<your-tenant-id>.<your-region>.auth0.com/

  authorizationConfig:

    # Request any scopes other than "openid" for claims besides
    # the default claims in your token. The "openid" scope is always
    # included.
    additionalScopes: 
    - offline_access

>     - email

Reviewer: Can we indent these further?

Author: done, see next push

    # If you would also like to allow your end users to authenticate using
    # a password grant, then change this to true. Password grants only work
    # with applications created in Auth0 with the "Password" grant type enabled.
    allowPasswordGrant: false

  # Specify how Auth claims are mapped to Kubernetes identities.
  claims:

    # Specify the name of the claim in your Auth0 token that will be mapped
    # to the "username" claim in downstream tokens minted by the Supervisor.
    username: email

    # Specify the name of the claim in Auth0 that represents the groups
    # that the user belongs to.

>     groups: https://<your-domain>/groups

Reviewer: Should this be the same as the example provided above? `"https://example.com/pinniped/groups"`

Author: done, see next push

>   # Specify how Auth claims are mapped to Kubernetes identities.

Reviewer 2: `Auth` -> `Auth0`?

Author: done, see next push

>     # Specify the name of the claim in your Auth0 ID token that represents the groups

Reviewer 2: This wraps a little funny in the final rendered site.  Maybe we can split the line?
<img width="868" alt="Screenshot 2023-07-28 at 3 31 37 PM" src="https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/pinniped/assets/280512/cea2ef6b-19c9-49a6-b7fb-037e017c1245">

Author: done, see next push

>     groups: https://example.com/pinniped/groups

Reviewer 2: ```
groups:  group_names
```

Author: `https://example.com/pinniped/groups` is a reference to the above example, it's meant to tie the concepts together.

Reviewer 2: Ah, just read their "namespaced" recommend per your link.  Weird here under groups, but that works. 👍
